INSERT INTO links ('title', 'score', 'date', 'summary', 'Atmosphere', 'Tags', 'RecommensationsGame', 'RecommensationsBook')
 VALUES('Tokyo Story', '100', 'March 13, 1972', 'Yasujiro Ozu’s Tokyo Story follows an aging couple, Tomi and Sukichi, on their journey from their rural village to visit their two married children in bustling, postwar Tokyo. Their reception is disappointing: too busy to entertain them, their children send them off to a health spa. After Tomi falls ill she and Sukichi return home, while the children, grief-stricken, hasten to be with her. From a simple tale unfolds one of the greatest of all Japanese films. Starring Ozu regulars Chishu Ryu and Setsuko Hara, the film reprises one of the director’s favorite themes—that of generational conflict—in a way that is quintessentially Japanese and yet so universal in its appeal that it continues to resonate as one of cinema’s greatest masterpieces.', 'Tokyo Story is a Japanese drama film directed by Yasujiro Ozu, which was released in 1953. The film follows an aging couple who travel to Tokyo to visit their grown children, only to find that their children are too busy with their own lives to pay much attention to them. The atmosphere of the film is melancholic, introspective and nostalgic. It explores themes of aging, family, and the changing relationships between generations in post-war Japan. The film is known for its delicate and understated style, and its keen insight into the human experience.','Japanese drama, aging, family, relationships, post-war Japan, melancholic, introspective, nostalgic.', 'None.', '"The Housekeeper and the Professor" by Yoko Ogawa, "Norwegian Wood" by Haruki Murakami, "Kitchen" by Banana Yoshimoto.')
('The Godfather', '100', 'March 24, 1972', 'Francis Ford Coppola's epic features Marlon Brando in his Oscar-winning role as the patriarch of the Corleone family. Director Coppola paints a chilling portrait of the Sicilian clan's rise and near fall from power in America, masterfully balancing the story between the Corleone's family life and the ugly crime business in which they are engaged. Based on Mario Puzo's best-selling novel and featuring career-making performances by Al Pacino, James Caan and Robert Duvall, this searing and brilliant film garnered ten Academy Award nominations, and won three including Best Picture of 1972.', 'The Godfather is a classic crime drama film directed by Francis Ford Coppola, which was released in 1972. The film is based on the novel of the same name by Mario Puzo, and tells the story of the Corleone family, a powerful Italian-American mafia clan. The atmosphere of the film is dark, tense and intense, reflecting the ruthless world of organized crime and the family's struggle to maintain their power. The film is known for its iconic characters, powerful performances, and its intricate and compelling storyline, which explores themes of family, loyalty, and power.','Crime drama, Italian-American mafia, organized crime, power, family, loyalty.', '"Grand Theft Auto: Vice City", "Mafia: The City of Lost Heaven", "Hitman: Blood Money".', '"The Mafia Manager" by V. Valcarega, "The Wages of Sin" by Maria Arana, "The Souls of Black Folk" by W.E.B. Du Bois.')
('Citizen Kane', '100', 'September 4, 1941', 'Following the death of a publishing tycoon, news reporters scramble to discover the meaning of his final utterance.', 'Citizen Kane is a classic American drama film directed by and starring Orson Welles, which was released in 1941. The film is widely regarded as one of the greatest American films of all time, and tells the story of the rise and fall of Charles Foster Kane, a powerful and influential newspaper magnate. The atmosphere of the film is dark, moody and mysterious, reflecting Kane's complicated and often mysterious life and personality. The film is known for its innovative cinematography, its groundbreaking use of sound, and its complex and multi-layered storyline, which explores themes of power, wealth, and the American Dream.','American drama, newspaper magnate, power, wealth, American Dream, dark, moody, mysterious.', 'None.', '"The Power Broker: Robert Moses and the Fall of New York" by Robert A. Caro, "The Great Gatsby" by F. Scott Fitzgerald, "The Age of Innocence" by Edith Wharton.')
('Rear Window', '100', 'September 1, 1954', 'A wheelchair-bound photographer spies on his neighbours from his apartment window and becomes convinced one of them has committed murder.', 'Rear Window is a classic American suspense film directed by Alfred Hitchcock, which was released in 1954. The film follows the story of a photojournalist who is confined to his apartment with a broken leg and becomes obsessed with observing his neighbors through his rear window. The atmosphere of the film is tense, suspenseful, and voyeuristic, as the main character becomes increasingly involved in the lives of his neighbors and begins to suspect that one of them may have committed a crime. The film is known for its masterful direction, its sharp and witty dialogue, and its voyeuristic themes, which explore the line between privacy and voyeurism.','Suspense, voyeurism, tension, privacy, American.', '"Hitman: Absolution", "Eagle Eye Mysteries: visions of Murder", "L.A. Noire".', '"The Talented Mr. Ripley" by Patricia Highsmith, "Vertigo" by Boileau-Narcejac, "The Cry of the Owl" by Patricia Highsmith.')
('Casablanca', '100', 'January 23, 1943', 'A Casablanca, Morocco casino owner in 1941 shelters his former lover and her husband, a Czechoslovakian freedom fighter, from the Nazis.', 'Casablanca is a classic American war film directed by Michael Curtiz and released in 1942. The film takes place in the Moroccan city of Casablanca during World War II and follows the story of a man who must choose between his love for a woman and his duty to help her husband escape the city. The atmosphere of the film is romantic, bittersweet, and nostalgic, capturing the longing and uncertainty of life during wartime. The film is known for its timeless dialogue, its memorable characters, and its timeless themes of love, sacrifice, and the human condition.','Romantic, bittersweet, nostalgic, war, love, sacrifice, American.', 'None.', '"Atonement" by Ian McEwan, "Love in the Time of Cholera" by Gabriel García Márquez, "The English Patient" by Michael Ondaatje.')
('Boyhood', '100', 'July 11, 2014', 'Filmed over 12 years with the same cast, Richard Linklater's Boyhood is a groundbreaking story of growing up as seen through the eyes of a child named Mason (Ellar Coltrane), who literally grows up on screen before our eyes. Starring Ethan Hawke and Patricia Arquette as Mason's parents and newcomer Lorelei Linklater as his sister Samantha, Boyhood charts the rocky terrain of childhood like no other film has before and is both a nostalgic time capsule of the recent past and an ode to growing up and parenting.', 'Boyhood is a coming-of-age drama film directed by Richard Linklater and released in 2014. The film follows the story of a boy named Mason as he grows up from childhood to adulthood, capturing the unique experiences and milestones of his life over the course of 12 years. The atmosphere of the film is nostalgic, contemplative, and emotionally honest, capturing the joys and struggles of growing up and the beauty of life's journey. The film is known for its innovative approach to storytelling, its naturalistic acting, and its unflinching depiction of the human experience.','Nostalgic, contemplative, emotionally honest, coming-of-age, growth, American.', 'None.', '"The Catcher in the Rye" by J.D. Salinger, "To Kill a Mockingbird" by Harper Lee, "The Perks of Being a Wallflower" by Stephen Chbosky.')
('Three Colors: Red', '100', 'November 23, 1994', 'Krzysztof Kieslowski closes his Three Colors trilogy in grand fashion, with an incandescent meditation on fate and chance, starring Irène Jacob as a sweet-souled yet somber runway model in Geneva whose life dramatically intersects with that of a bitter retired judge, played by Jean-Louis Trintignant. Meanwhile, just down the street, a seemingly unrelated story of jealousy and betrayal unfolds. Red is an intimate look at forged connections and a splendid final statement from a remarkable filmmaker at the height of his powers.', 'Three Colors: Red is a French film directed by Krzysztof Kieślowski and released in 1994. The film is the final installment of Kieślowski's "Three Colors" trilogy, which explores the themes of liberty, equality, and fraternity in contemporary France. Three Colors: Red focuses on the theme of fraternity and tells the story of a young model who becomes embroiled in the lives of a judge and a retired judge. The atmosphere of the film is introspective, melancholic, and thought-provoking, capturing the complexities of human relationships and the nature of fate and coincidence.','Introspective, melancholic, thought-provoking, human relationships, fate, coincidence, French.', 'None.', '"The Stranger" by Albert Camus, "One Hundred Years of Solitude" by Gabriel García Márquez, "The Unbearable Lightness of Being" by Milan Kundera.')
('Vertigo', '100', 'May 28, 1958', 'Vertigo creates a dizzying web of mistaken identity, passion and murder after an acrophobic detective rescues a mysterious blonde from the bay.', 'Vertigo is a psychological thriller film directed by Alfred Hitchcock and released in 1958. The film follows the story of a retired detective who becomes obsessed with a mysterious woman he is hired to tail, leading him down a dangerous path of desire and deceit. The atmosphere of the film is eerie, suspenseful, and haunting, capturing the psychological complexities of the human mind and the dangers of obsession. Vertigo is known for its innovative use of camera work, particularly its famous "Vertigo effect", which was groundbreaking at the time of its release.','Eerie, suspenseful, haunting, psychological, obsession, desire, deceit.', 'None.', '"Psycho" by Robert Bloch, "The Silence of the Lambs" by Thomas Harris, "Gone Girl" by Gillian Flynn.')
('Notorious', '100', 'September 6, 1946', 'A woman is asked to spy on a group of Nazi friends in South America. How far will she have to go to ingratiate herself with them?', 'Notorious is a classic Hollywood film noir directed by Alfred Hitchcock and released in 1946. The film tells the story of a young woman who is recruited by the American government to spy on a group of Nazi exiles in South America, leading her into a dangerous world of espionage and deceit. The atmosphere of the film is tense, suspenseful, and atmospheric, capturing the dangers of the spy game and the complexities of human relationships. Notorious is known for its masterful use of suspense and its twisty, unpredictable plot.','Tense, suspenseful, atmospheric, espionage, deceit, human relationships, Hollywood film noir.', 'None.', '"The Spy Who Came In from the Cold" by John le Carré, "Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy" by John le Carré, "The Day of the Jackal" by Frederick Forsyth.')
('Singin' in the Rain', '99', 'April 11, 1952', 'A silent film production company and cast make a difficult transition to sound.', 'Singin' in the Rain is a classic Hollywood musical film directed by Stanley Donen and Gene Kelly, and released in 1952. The film is set in the 1920s during the transition from silent films to "talkies", and follows the adventures of a popular silent film star as he navigates this new era of filmmaking. The atmosphere of the film is light-hearted, fun, and joyful, capturing the excitement and energy of the musical genre. Singin' in the Rain is known for its iconic musical numbers and its innovative use of sound and dance in film.','Light-hearted, fun, joyful, musical, Hollywood, iconic, innovative.', 'None.', '"On the Town: A Community Adventure" by Betty Comden, Adolph Green, and Leonard Bernstein, "The Barkleys of Broadway" by Harry Tugend, "The Band Wagon" by Betty Comden and Adolph Green.')
('Playtime', '99', 'June 27, 1973', 'Monsieur Hulot curiously wanders around a high-tech Paris, paralleling a trip with a group of American tourists. Meanwhile, a nightclub/restaurant prepares its opening night, but it's still under construction.', 'Playtime is a French comedy-drama film directed by Jacques Tati and released in 1967. The film takes place in a futuristic version of Paris and follows the adventures of a character named Mr. Hulot as he navigates the city and its modern technology. The atmosphere of the film is whimsical, imaginative, and playful, capturing the joys and challenges of modern life. Playtime is known for its masterful use of physical comedy and its innovative use of sound and visual design.','Whimsical, imaginative, playful, comedy-drama, physical comedy, innovative, modern life.', 'None.', '"The Little Prince" by Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland" by Lewis Carroll, "The Phantom Tollbooth" by Norton Juster.')
('City Lights', '99', 'March 7, 1931', 'The Tramp (Charlie Chaplin) struggles to help a blind flower girl he has fallen in love with.', 'City Lights is a silent comedy-drama film directed by Charlie Chaplin and released in 1931. The film follows the adventures of a tramp as he falls in love with a blind girl and tries to find a way to pay for her operation to restore her sight. The atmosphere of the film is heartwarming, romantic, and bittersweet, capturing the struggles and joys of life in the city. City Lights is considered one of the greatest films of all time and is known for its iconic character, memorable scenes, and timeless themes.','Heartwarming, romantic, bittersweet, comedy-drama, iconic, memorable, timeless themes.', 'None.', '"The Little Match Girl" by Hans Christian Andersen, "A Streetcar Named Desire" by Tennessee Williams, "The Grand Budapest Hotel" by Wes Anderson.')
('Moonlight', '99', 'October 21, 2016', 'Moonlight is the tender, heartbreaking story of a young man’s struggle to find himself, told across three defining chapters in his life as he experiences the ecstasy, pain, and beauty of falling in love, while grappling with his own sexuality.', 'Moonlight is a drama film directed by Barry Jenkins and released in 2016. The film is a coming-of-age story that follows a young man named Chiron as he grows up in Miami, struggling with his identity and relationships. The atmosphere of the film is poignant, introspective, and emotional, capturing the complexities of growing up and finding one's place in the world. Moonlight is known for its powerful performances, nuanced storytelling, and its representation of the African American experience.','Poignant, introspective, emotional, coming-of-age, powerful performances, nuanced storytelling, representation of African American experience.', '"Life is Strange", "What Remains of Edith Finch", "Firewatch".', '"The Color Purple" by Alice Walker, "Between the World and Me" by Ta-Nehisi Coates, "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings" by Maya Angelou.')
('Intolerance', '99', 'September 5, 1916', 'The story of a poor young woman, separated by prejudice from her husband and baby, is interwoven with tales of intolerance from throughout history.', 'Intolerance is a silent epic drama film directed by D.W. Griffith and released in 1916. The film tells the story of the effects of intolerance on different cultures and historical events, including the fall of Babylon, the Crucifixion of Jesus, and the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre. The atmosphere of the film is grandiose, intense, and thought-provoking, capturing the timeless themes of human suffering, persecution, and social injustice. Intolerance is considered a landmark in film history and is known for its innovative techniques and powerful storytelling.','Grandiose, intense, thought-provoking, human suffering, persecution, social injustice, landmark, innovative techniques, powerful storytelling.', '"Assassin's Creed: Unity", "Age of Empires II", "Red Dead Redemption 2".', '"The Trial and Death of Socrates" by Plato, "The Count of Monte Cristo" by Alexandre Dumas, "Les Misérables" by Victor Hugo.')
('Pinocchio', '99', 'February 23, 1940', 'A living puppet, with the help of a cricket as his conscience, must prove himself worthy to become a real boy.', 'Pinocchio is an animated musical film produced by Walt Disney Animation Studios and released in 1940. The film is based on the classic Italian novel "The Adventures of Pinocchio" by Carlo Collodi and tells the story of a wooden marionette who longs to become a real boy. The atmosphere of the film is whimsical, adventurous, and heartwarming, capturing the spirit of childhood and the joys of discovery. Pinocchio is known for its iconic characters, memorable music, and timeless themes of bravery, perseverance, and the importance of following one's conscience.','Whimsical, adventurous, heartwarming, childhood, discovery, iconic characters, memorable music, bravery, perseverance, following one's conscience.', '"Super Mario Odyssey", "The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild", "LittleBigPlanet".', '"The Adventures of Tom Sawyer" by Mark Twain, "The Wind in the Willows" by Kenneth Grahame, "The Secret Garden" by Frances Hodgson Burnett.')
('Touch of Evil', '99', 'February 1, 1958', 'This film noir portrait of corruption and morally-compromised obsessions stars Welles as Hank Quinlan, a crooked police chief who frames a Mexican youth as part of an intricate criminal plot. Charlton Heston plays an honorable Mexican narcotics investigator who clashes with the bigoted Quinlan after probing into his dark past. A memorable supporting cast including Janet Leigh as Heston's inquisitive wife, Akim Tamiroff as a seedy underworld leader, Zsa Zsa Gabor and Marlene Dietrich as an enigmatic gypsy complete this fascinating drama engulfed in haunting cinematography and a magnificently eerie score by Henry Mancini.', 'Touch of Evil is a crime film directed by Orson Welles and released in 1958. The film is a classic example of film noir and tells the story of a police captain who investigates a bomb explosion near the border of the United States and Mexico. The atmosphere of the film is dark, suspenseful, and brooding, capturing the seedy underbelly of small-town America and the moral decay of its characters. Touch of Evil is known for its innovative cinematography, complex storyline, and the commanding performance of its lead actors, including Orson Welles himself.','Dark, suspenseful, brooding, film noir, police investigation, small-town America, moral decay, innovative cinematography, complex storyline, commanding performance.', '"L.A. Noire", "Max Payne", "Red Dead Redemption".', '"The Big Sleep" by Raymond Chandler, "Farewell, My Lovely" by Raymond Chandler, "The Long Goodbye" by Raymond Chandler.')
('Seven Samurai', '98', 'November 19, 1956', 'Seven Samurai (Shichinin no samurai) tells the story of a sixteenth-century village whose desperate inhabitants hire the eponymous warriors to protect them from invading bandits.', 'Seven Samurai is a Japanese historical action film directed by Akira Kurosawa and released in 1954. The film is set in 16th century Japan and tells the story of a village that hires seven samurai to defend them against bandits. The atmosphere of the film is tense, epic, and thrilling, capturing the honorable code of the samurai and the danger and sacrifice involved in their duties. Seven Samurai is known for its masterful storytelling, memorable characters, and stunning action sequences, and is widely considered one of the greatest films of all time.','Tense, epic, thrilling, honorable code, samurai, danger, sacrifice, masterful storytelling, memorable characters, stunning action sequences.', '"Ghost of Tsushima", "Nioh", "Shadow of the Colossus".', '"Musashi" by Eiji Yoshikawa, "Harnessing the Wind: A Samurai's Tale" by K.D. McCrite, "The Last Samurai" by Helen DeWitt.')
('The Wild Bunch', '98', 'June 18, 1969', 'An aging group of outlaws look for one last big score as the "traditional" American West is disappearing around them.', 'The Wild Bunch is a western film directed by Sam Peckinpah and released in 1969. The film follows a group of aging outlaws who plan to retire after one final heist, only to find themselves pursued by a posse and forced to confront the changing face of the American West. The atmosphere of the film is gritty, violent, and melancholic, capturing the harsh realities of frontier life and the end of an era. The Wild Bunch is known for its realistic and unflinching portrayal of violence, as well as its moral complexity and rich characters.','Gritty, violent, melancholic, aging outlaws, final heist, American West, frontier life, end of an era, realistic violence, moral complexity, rich characters.', '"Red Dead Redemption 2", "Call of Juarez: Gunslinger", "Desperados III".', '"Lonesome Dove" by Larry McMurtry, "True Grit" by Charles Portis, "The Ox-Bow Incident" by Walter Van Tilburg Clark.')
('Au hasard Balthazar', '98', 'September 16, 1966', 'Robert Bresson's 1966 film focuses on the story of the donkey Balthazar and the people around him.', 'Au Hasard Balthazar is a French film directed by Robert Bresson and released in 1966. The film tells the story of a donkey named Balthazar as it travels through the lives of various characters, including a young girl, a wastrel, and a farmer. The atmosphere of the film is contemplative, melancholic, and existential, capturing the fate and suffering of its central character as well as the flawed and selfish nature of humanity. Au Hasard Balthazar is known for its minimalist style, powerful themes, and its poignant portrayal of the relationship between man and beast.','Contemplative, melancholic, existential, fate, suffering, central character, flawed humanity, minimalist style, powerful themes, poignant portrayal, relationship, man and beast.', 'None.', '"Waiting for Godot" by Samuel Beckett, "The Stranger" by Albert Camus, "The Plague" by Albert Camus.')
('The Lady Vanishes', '98', 'November 1, 1938', 'While travelling in continental Europe, a rich young playgirl realizes that an elderly lady seems to have disappeared from the train.', '"The Lady Vanishes" is a classic British film directed by Alfred Hitchcock and released in 1938. The film is a suspenseful and humorous mystery, set on a train traveling through Europe. The atmosphere of the film is tense and thrilling, as the protagonist, a young woman, tries to uncover the truth behind the mysterious disappearance of an elderly woman, while also dealing with a group of shady characters on the train. With its sharp dialog, witty humor, and tense plot twists, "The Lady Vanishes" is considered a masterful example of the suspense genre.','Suspenseful, humorous, mystery, tense, thrilling, protagonist, young woman, truth, disappearance, elderly woman, shady characters, sharp dialog, witty humor, plot twists.', '"Her Story", "Danganronpa: Trigger Happy Havoc", "Layton’s Mystery Journey".', '"Murder on the Orient Express" by Agatha Christie, "The Hound of the Baskervilles" by Arthur Conan Doyle, "And Then There Were None" by Agatha Christie.')
('The Treasure of the Sierra Madre', '98', 'January 24, 1948', 'Fred Dobbs and Bob Curtin, two Americans searching for work in Mexico, convince an old prospector to help them mine for gold in the Sierra Madre Mountains.', '"The Treasure of the Sierra Madre" is a classic American film directed by John Huston and released in 1948. The film is a drama-adventure set in the 1920s, and follows three American gold prospectors in search of wealth in the Mexican mountains. The atmosphere of the film is tense and suspenseful, as the three men's quest for riches leads to distrust, greed, and ultimately violence. With its rich character development and tense plot, "The Treasure of the Sierra Madre" is a timeless exploration of human nature and the consequences of greed.','Drama-adventure, 1920s, American gold prospectors, wealth, Mexican mountains, tense, suspenseful, distrust, greed, violence, rich character development, timeless, human nature, consequences of greed.', '"Red Dead Redemption 2", "Uncharted 2: Among Thieves", "Far Cry 5".', '"Into the Wild" by Jon Krakauer, "The Call of the Wild" by Jack London, "Heart of Darkness" by Joseph Conrad.')
('Pan's Labyrinth', '98', 'December 29, 2006', 'Following a bloody civil war, young Ofelia enters a world of unimaginable cruelty when she moves in with her new stepfather, a tyrannical military officer. Armed with only her imagination, Ofelia discovers a mysterious labyrinth and meets a faun who sets her on a path to saving herself and her ailing mother. But soon, the lines between fantasy and reality begin to blur, and before Ofelia can turn back, she finds herself at the center of a ferocious battle between good and evil.', '"Pan's Labyrinth" is a 2006 dark fantasy film directed by Guillermo del Toro. Set in Spain during the aftermath of the Spanish Civil War, the film follows a young girl named Ofelia as she embarks on a mystical journey through a labyrinth and into a fantastical world filled with dangerous creatures and magical creatures. The atmosphere of the film is eerie and ominous, with moments of wonder and beauty offset by moments of terror and violence. Del Toro masterfully blends elements of dark fantasy, fairy tale, and historical drama to create a truly unique and captivating film experience.','Dark fantasy, Spain, Spanish Civil War, young girl, mystical journey, labyrinth, fantastical world, dangerous creatures, magical creatures, eerie, ominous, wonder, beauty, terror, violence, dark fantasy, fairy tale, historical drama, unique, captivating.', '"Bloodborne", "The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim", "Dark Souls III".', '"The Graveyard Book" by Neil Gaiman, "The Name of the Wind" by Patrick Rothfuss, "The Gormenghast Trilogy" by Mervyn Peake.')
('Some Like It Hot', '98', 'March 29, 1959', 'When two male musicians witness a mob hit, they flee the state in an all-female band disguised as women, but further complications set in.', '"Some Like It Hot" is a 1959 American comedy film directed by Billy Wilder. The film is set in the late 1920s and follows two musicians who witness a gangland shooting and go on the run, disguised as women and joining an all-female jazz band. The atmosphere of the film is lighthearted and humorous, with a blend of romantic comedy and slapstick humor. The film's sharp wit, charming performances, and timeless humor have made it a classic of the comedy genre.','Comedy, 1920s, musicians, gangland shooting, all-female jazz band, lighthearted, humorous, romantic comedy, slapstick, sharp wit, charming performances, timeless humor, classic, comedy genre.', 'None', '"Bring Up the Bodies" by Hilary Mantel, "A Gentleman in Moscow" by Amor Towles, "The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society" by Mary Ann Shaffer and Annie Barrows.')
('North by Northwest', '98', 'August 6, 1959', 'A hapless New York advertising executive is mistaken for a government agent by a group of foreign spies, and is pursued across the country while he looks for a way to survive.', '"North by Northwest" is a 1959 American action/adventure film directed by Alfred Hitchcock. The film is set in the 1950s and follows a man who becomes embroiled in a case of espionage after he is mistaken for a government agent. The atmosphere of the film is fast-paced and thrilling, with a mix of humor, suspense, and adventure. The film's iconic chase scenes, memorable characters, and iconic musical score have made it a classic of the action/adventure genre.','Action/adventure, 1950s, espionage, fast-paced, thrilling, humor, suspense, adventure, chase scenes, memorable characters, iconic musical score, classic, action/adventure genre.', '"Hitman" series, "Metal Gear Solid" series, "Tomb Raider" series.', '"The Bourne Identity" by Robert Ludlum, "Spy Game" by Terry Hayes, "The Day of the Jackal" by Frederick Forsyth.')
('The Rules of the Game', '98', 'April 8, 1950', 'A bourgeois life in France at the onset of World War II, as the rich and their poor servants meet up at a French chateau.', '"The Rules of the Game" is a 1939 French film directed by Jean Renoir. The film is set in the late 1930s and is a satirical comedy-drama that focuses on the lives of the wealthy French upper class and their servants, who are all gathered at a hunting estate. The film has a lighthearted, yet critical tone, as it takes a look at the social customs and conventions of the time, and the way they restrict and shape the lives of those who must abide by them.','1930s, satirical, comedy-drama, wealthy French upper class, servants, hunting estate, lighthearted, critical tone, social customs, conventions, restrict, shape lives.', 'None', '"Mansfield Park" by Jane Austen, "Pride and Prejudice" by Jane Austen, "Emma" by Jane Austen.')
('Hoop Dreams', '98', 'October 14, 1994', 'Two inner-city Chicago boys with hopes of becoming professional basketball players struggle to become college players.', '"Hoop Dreams" is a 1994 documentary film directed by Steve James. The film follows the lives of two inner-city Chicago teenagers, Arthur Agee and William Gates, as they pursue their dreams of becoming professional basketball players. The film is a poignant and emotional depiction of the struggles and sacrifices that these young men must make in order to pursue their dreams, and it also provides a critical look at the larger social and economic factors that can shape and limit their futures.','1994, documentary, inner-city Chicago, teenagers, Arthur Agee, William Gates, professional basketball players, poignant, emotional, struggles, sacrifices, pursue dreams, critical look, larger social, economic factors, shape, limit futures.', 'None', '"The New Jim Crow: Mass Incarceration in the Age of Colorblindness" by Michelle Alexander, "Sisters in the Struggle: African American Women in the Civil Rights-Black Power Movement" edited by Bettye Collier-Thomas and V.P. Franklin, "The Warmth of Other Suns: The Epic Story of America's Great Migration" by Isabel Wilkerson.')
('Rashomon', '98', 'December 26, 1951', 'The rape of a bride and the murder of her samurai husband are recalled from the perspectives of a bandit, the bride, the samurai's ghost and a woodcutter.', '"Rashomon" is a 1950 Japanese film directed by Akira Kurosawa. The film is a landmark of Japanese cinema and is widely considered to be one of the greatest films of all time. The film explores the concept of truth and subjectivity through the retelling of a single event from the perspectives of four different characters. The atmospheric tone is moody and atmospheric, with a focus on psychological and emotional nuance, and the cinematography is stunning, capturing the beautiful and mysterious atmosphere of ancient Japan.','1950, Japanese, Akira Kurosawa, landmark, Japanese cinema, greatest films, truth, subjectivity, retelling, event, perspectives, four characters, moody, atmospheric, focus, psychological, emotional nuance, cinematography, beautiful, mysterious atmosphere, ancient Japan.', '"Shadow of the Colossus", "Ico", "The Last Guardian".', '"The Tales of Genji" by Murasaki Shikibu, "Kokoro" by Natsume Sōseki, "The Housekeeper and the Professor" by Yoko Ogawa.')
('All About Eve', '98', 'October 27, 1950', 'An ingenue insinuates herself into the company of an established but aging stage actress and her circle of theater friends.', '"All About Eve" is a 1950 American drama film directed by Joseph L. Mankiewicz. The film explores the world of the theater, and the ambition and manipulation that often accompany it. The atmosphere is witty, sharp and satirical, with a focus on character relationships and the dynamics of power and control. The film features strong performances from a talented ensemble cast and is widely regarded as one of the best films of the 1950s.','1950, American, Joseph L. Mankiewicz, drama, theater, ambition, manipulation, witty, sharp, satirical, focus, character relationships, dynamics, power, control, ensemble cast, best films, 1950s.', 'None.', '"The Picture of Dorian Gray" by Oscar Wilde, "An Ideal Husband" by Oscar Wilde, "The Great Gatsby" by F. Scott Fitzgerald.')
('Jules and Jim', '97', 'April 23, 1962', 'Decades of a love triangle concerning two friends and an impulsive woman.', '"Jules and Jim" is a 1962 French romantic drama film directed by Francois Truffaut. The film explores the complex, multi-faceted relationships between the three main characters, Jules, Jim, and Catherine, and the impact their relationships have on each other's lives. The film features a lush, atmospheric score and beautiful cinematography that captures the moods and emotions of the characters. The atmosphere is a mix of nostalgia, romance, and heartbreak, with a focus on the fluidity of relationships and the unpredictable nature of love.','1962, French, Francois Truffaut, romantic drama, complex relationships, Jules, Jim, Catherine, impact, lives, lush, atmospheric score, beautiful cinematography, moods, emotions, nostalgia, romance, heartbreak, focus, fluidity, relationships, unpredictable, nature, love.', 'None.', '"Love in the Time of Cholera" by Gabriel García Márquez, "One Hundred Years of Solitude" by Gabriel García Márquez, "Madame Bovary" by Gustave Flaubert.')
('My Left Foot', '97', 'November 10, 1989', 'True story of cerebral palsied Christy Brown, who overcame his illness and poverty to become an accomplished artist, poet and writer.', '"My Left Foot" is a 1989 Irish drama film directed by Jim Sheridan. The film tells the story of Christy Brown, an Irishman born with cerebral palsy who learns to paint and write with his left foot. The film features a powerful and emotional performance by Daniel Day-Lewis as Christy Brown, who won an Academy Award for his portrayal. The atmosphere of the film is heartwarming and inspiring, as Christy Brown overcomes great odds to achieve his goals and lead a fulfilling life. The film's cinematography captures the beauty and wonder of Christy's world, as well as the emotional depths of his struggles.','1989, Irish, Jim Sheridan, Christy Brown, cerebral palsy, paint, write, left foot, powerful, emotional, performance, Daniel Day-Lewis, Academy Award, heartwarming, inspiring, overcome, great odds, achieve, goals, fulfilling life, cinematography, beauty, wonder, emotional depths, struggles.', 'None.', '"The Diving Bell and the Butterfly" by Jean-Dominique Bauby, "The Color of Water: A Black Man's Tribute to His White Mother" by James McBride, "The Absolutely True Diary of a Part-Time Indian" by Sherman Alexie.')
('The Third Man', '97', 'September 3, 1949', 'Pulp novelist Holly Martins travels to shadowy, postwar Vienna, only to find himself investigating the mysterious death of an old friend, Harry Lime.', 'The atmosphere in "The Third Man" is dark and suspenseful, reflecting post-World War II Vienna and the characters' moral ambiguities. The film is well-known for its cinematography, particularly its use of light and shadows, which contributes to the atmosphere of unease and danger.','mystery, suspense, post-World War II, moral ambiguity, film noir, cinematography', '"L.A. Noire", "Call of Cthulhu: Dark Corners of the Earth", "Sherlock Holmes: Crimes & Punishments"', '"The Big Sleep" by Raymond Chandler, "The Maltese Falcon" by Dashiell Hammett, "Red Harvest" by Dashiell Hammett')
('Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb', '97', 'January 29, 1964', 'Through a series of military and political accidents, a psychotic general - U.S. Air Force Commander Jack D. Ripper (Hayden) - triggers an ingenious, irrevocable scheme to attack Russia's strategic targets with nuclear bombs. The U.S. President (Sellers) and Dr. Strangelove (Sellers), a wheelchair-bound nuclear scientist who has bizarre ideas about man's future, work with the Soviet premier in a desperate effort to save the world.', '"Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb" is a satirical black comedy that lampoons the Cold War and the nuclear threat that dominated the era. The film features a darkly humorous tone, with a cast of eccentric characters and a fast-paced, absurd narrative that often borders on the surreal.','satire, black comedy, Cold War, nuclear threat, humor, absurdity, surreal', '"Keep Talking and Nobody Explodes", "Fallout 3", "Fallout: New Vegas"', '"Catch-22" by Joseph Heller, "Slaughterhouse-Five" by Kurt Vonnegut, "One Hundred Years of Solitude" by Gabriel Garcia Marquez')
('Quo Vadis, Aida?', '97', 'March 5, 2021', 'Bosnia, July 11th 1995.  Aida is a translator for the United Nations in the small town of Srebrenica. When the Serbian army takes over the town, her family is among the thousands of citizens looking for shelter in the UN camp. As an insider to the negotiations Aida has access to crucial information that she needs to interpret. What is at the horizon for her family and people - rescue or death? Which move should she take?', '"Quo Vadis, Aida?" is a historical drama film that takes place during the Bosnian War in the mid-1990s. The film has a tense and emotional atmosphere, exploring themes of war, displacement, and survival in the face of extreme violence and injustice. Despite the serious subject matter, the film is also infused with moments of hope and humanity, showing the strength and resilience of the human spirit.','historical drama, Bosnian War, tension, emotional, war, displacement, survival, violence, injustice, hope, humanity, strength, resilience', '"Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2", "Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon", "Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Siege"', '"A Thousand Splendid Suns" by Khaled Hosseini, "The Book Thief" by Markus Zusak, "The Nightingale" by Kristin Hannah')
('Psycho', '97', 'September 8, 1960', 'A Phoenix secretary embezzles $40,000 from her employer's client, goes on the run, and checks into a remote motel run by a young man, Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins) under the domination of his mother.', 'Psycho is a psychological thriller directed by Alfred Hitchcock, the atmosphere of the movie is suspenseful, eerie and disturbing. The film follows Marion Crane, who steals money from her employer and goes on the run, only to wind up at the Bates Motel, run by the mysterious Norman Bates. The atmosphere of the movie is created through the use of music, lighting, and camera angles. The film is considered a classic of the genre and is widely regarded as one of the greatest films of all time.','Psychological Thriller, Suspense, Eerie, Disturbing, Classic', 'Dead Space, Outlast, Alien: Isolation', 'The Silence of the Lambs by Thomas Harris, Red Dragon by Thomas Harris, The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo by Stieg Larsson')
('Gone with the Wind', '97', 'January 17, 1940', 'A Southern belle struggles with the devastation of the Civil War and Reconstruction. This classic won 8 Academy Awards, including Best Picture.', '"Gone with the Wind" is a classic epic historical romance film that takes place in the American South during the American Civil War and Reconstruction era. The film depicts the life of the charming and determined Scarlett O'Hara as she navigates through the tumultuous times and finds love, heartbreak, and everything in between. The atmosphere of the film is one of grandeur and opulence, with sweeping shots of the antebellum South, dramatic scenes of war and destruction, and the luxurious lifestyles of the rich and famous. The film is known for its attention to detail, its rich and sweeping musical score, and its timeless themes of love, war, and perseverance.','Civil War, Romance, Southern America, Epic, Drama, Historical fiction', '"Civil War: Bull Run 1861", "Age of Empires III", "Civilization V"', '"Gone with the Wind" by Margaret Mitchell, "Scarlett" by Alexandra Ripley, "Roots: The Saga of an American Family" by Alex Haley')
('4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days', '97', 'January 23, 2008', 'During the final days of communism in Romania, two college roommates Otilia and Gabita are busy preparing for a night away. But rather than planning for a holiday, they are making arrangements for Gabita's illegal abortion and unwittingly, both find themselves burrowing deep down a rabbit hole of unexpected revelations.', '"4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days" is a tense and emotionally charged film that takes place during the late communist era in Romania. The atmosphere is grim and oppressive, reflecting the challenges faced by the film's main characters as they navigate a world in which they have limited freedom and autonomy. The film is characterized by its understated approach, with an emphasis on subtle gestures and small details to convey the oppressive nature of the setting.','Dramatic, Tense, Emotional, Oppressive, Subdued, Realistic', '"This War of Mine," "Papers, Please," "1979 Revolution: Black Friday"', '"The Unbearable Lightness of Being" by Milan Kundera, "Iron Curtains" by Andrei Codrescu, "Life and Fate" by Vasily Grossman')
('Battleship Potemkin', '97', 'December 5, 1926', 'In the midst of the Russian Revolution of 1905, the crew of the battleship Potemkin mutiny against the brutal, tyrannical regime of the vessel's officers. The resulting street demonstration in Odessa brings on a police massacre.', 'Battleship Potemkin is a silent film that depicts the mutiny of sailors on the eponymous ship. It was directed by Sergei Eisenstein and was made in 1925. The atmosphere of the film is tense and dramatic, with powerful visual storytelling and a focus on the themes of revolution and social justice. The film is considered a masterpiece of Soviet-era cinema and has been highly influential in the history of filmmaking.','Revolution, Mutiny, Political, Tense, Drama, Silent Film, Soviet Cinema', 'None', '"The Revolution Betrayed" by Leon Trotsky, "The Great Terror: A Reassessment" by Robert Conquest, "The Soviet Tragedy: A History of Socialism in Russia" by Martin Malia')
('A Streetcar Named Desire', '97', 'September 19, 1951', 'Disturbed Blanche DuBois (Vivien Leigh) moves in with her sister in New Orleans and is tormented by her brutish brother-in-law (Marlon Brando) while her reality crumbles around her.', '"A Streetcar Named Desire" is a movie with a dark and intense atmosphere, characterized by a complex and dramatic portrayal of relationships and human emotions. The film's setting, New Orleans, and its steamy, sensual quality add to the film's overall atmosphere. The film's director, Elia Kazan, was inspired by Tennessee Williams's play of the same name, which deals with themes of desire, sexuality, and social class.','Drama, Romance, Social Class, Relationships, Desire, Emotions, Intensity, Human Drama, New Orleans, Sexuality', '"Life is Strange", "Her Story", "Firewatch"', '"A Streetcar Named Desire" by Tennessee Williams, "The Glass Menagerie" by Tennessee Williams, "Suddenly, Last Summer" by Tennessee Williams.')
('The Maltese Falcon', '97', 'October 18, 1941', 'A private detective (Humphrey Bogart) takes on a case that involves him with three eccentric criminals, a gorgeous liar, and their quest for a priceless statuette.', '"The Maltese Falcon" is a classic film noir with a dark and moody atmosphere. The film is set in San Francisco and follows a private detective, Sam Spade, as he gets involved in a dangerous and complicated case involving a valuable statue known as the Maltese Falcon. The atmosphere of the film is characterized by its shadowy lighting, intense scenes, and the strong sense of danger and mystery that pervades the story.','Film Noir, Detective, Mystery, Crime, Drama', '"L.A. Noire", "Chrono Trigger", "Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney", "The Wolf Among Us", "Fahrenheit: Indigo Prophecy".', '"The Big Sleep" by Raymond Chandler, "Farewell, My Lovely" by Raymond Chandler, "The Long Goodbye" by Raymond Chandler, "The Little Sister" by Raymond Chandler, "Red Harvest" by Dashiell Hammett.')
('American Graffiti', '97', 'August 11, 1973', 'A couple of high school grads spend one final night cruising the strip with their buddies before they go off to college.', 'American Graffiti is a coming-of-age comedy-drama film set in the 1960s, depicting the lives of a group of teenagers in Modesto, California, as they spend their last summer before heading off to college. The film captures the carefree, joyful, and sometimes melancholic moments of youth and the transition into adulthood. The atmosphere of the film is nostalgic, upbeat, and bittersweet.','Coming-of-age, Nostalgia, Youth, Transition, Mod culture, Rock and Roll, Teenagers, 1960s', 'nan', '')
('Dumbo', '96', 'October 31, 1941', 'This simple animated tale is set in a circus and spotlights a baby elephant, Dumbo, who is mocked and ridiculed because his ears are too big, only to be assisted by a mouse to achieve his full potential.', 'The atmosphere of the movie "Dumbo" is lighthearted and magical, set in the world of circuses and animal performers. The film is a classic Disney animated musical that tells the story of a young elephant with unusually large ears who learns to fly. The film is known for its heartwarming story and lovable characters, as well as its memorable music and stunning animation.','Disney, animated, musical, circus, animal, heartwarming, flying', 'None', '"The Circus Train: A Lift-the-Flap Adventure" by Charlotte Hudspith, "The Elephant's Friend and Other Tales from Ancient India" by Marcia Williams, "The Magician's Elephant" by Kate DiCamillo')
('Roma', '96', 'November 21, 2018', 'Roma follows Cleo (Yalitza Aparicio), a young domestic worker for a family in the middle-class neighborhood of Roma in Mexico City. Delivering an artful love letter to the women who raised him, Cuarón draws on his own childhood to create a vivid and emotional portrait of domestic strife and social hierarchy amidst political turmoil of the 1970s.', '"Roma" is a film that is melancholic and introspective in tone. The atmosphere of the film is quiet, peaceful and introspective, with a nostalgic and sentimental mood. The film takes inspiration from the personal memories and experiences of the filmmaker, Alfonso Cuaron, as he reflects on his childhood growing up in the neighborhood of Roma in Mexico City.','Melancholic, Introspective, Nostalgic, Sentimental, Childhood, Personal, Mexico City', 'None', '"The Beginning of Spring" by Penelope Fitzgerald, "The House of the Spirits" by Isabel Allende, "The Death of Artemio Cruz" by Carlos Fuentes')
('Man with a Movie Camera', '96', 'May 12, 1929', 'A man travels around a city with a camera slung over his shoulder, documenting urban life with dazzling invention.', 'Man with a Movie Camera is a Soviet avant-garde silent documentary film directed by Dziga Vertov and released in 1929. The film explores the idea of capturing life as it is, and its atmosphere is that of a modern city and its inhabitants, captured in a poetic and imaginative way. Vertov's goal was to create a new form of cinema, one that would break away from traditional narrative storytelling and instead present a fragmented and experimental view of reality.','Silent Film, Avant-Garde, City Life, Experimentation, Reality, Fragmented Narrative, Documentary', 'None', '')
('Parasite', '96', 'October 11, 2019', 'Meet the Park Family: the picture of aspirational wealth. And the Kim Family, rich in street smarts but not much else. Be it chance or fate, these two houses are brought together and the Kims sense a golden opportunity. Masterminded by college-aged Ki-woo, the Kim children expediently install themselves as tutor and art therapist, to the Parks. Soon, a symbiotic relationship forms between the two families. The Kims provide “indispensable” luxury services while the Parks obliviously bankroll their entire household. When a parasitic interloper threatens the Kims’ newfound comfort, a savage, underhanded battle for dominance breaks out, threatening to destroy the fragile ecosystem between the Kims and the Parks.', 'The atmosphere of "Parasite" is darkly comedic and tense, with a focus on the class struggles and social commentary in South Korean society. Bong Joon-ho, the film's director, draws inspiration from his own experiences growing up in South Korea and the themes of wealth disparity and poverty. The film is both a dark comedy and a social thriller, blending elements of drama and suspense to create a unique and thought-provoking experience.','Social commentary, Class struggles, Poverty, Wealth disparity, South Korean society, Dark comedy, Tense', 'None', '"The Jungle" by Upton Sinclair, "The Grapes of Wrath" by John Steinbeck, "Down and Out in Paris and London" by George Orwell, "Low-Life" by Luc Sante, "The Fire Next Time" by James Baldwin.')
('Spirited Away', '96', 'September 20, 2002', 'A young girl, Chihiro, becomes trapped in a strange new world of spirits. When her parents undergo a mysterious transformation, she must call upon the courage she never knew she had to free herself and return her family to the outside world.', '"Spirited Away" is a fantastical journey into a magical and mysterious world filled with spirits, creatures, and beings that are both fascinating and sometimes frightening. The film's atmosphere is a mix of wonder and fear, as the young protagonist Chihiro travels through this strange realm, encountering strange and dangerous creatures at every turn. The animation style and breathtaking visuals create an immersive and captivating world that keeps the audience entranced from beginning to end.','animated, fantasy, coming-of-age, adventure, mystery, Japanese culture, magical creatures, spirits, otherworldly', '"Ni no Kuni: Wrath of the White Witch", "The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild", "Okami", "Little Nightmares", "Journey"', '"The Girl Who Drank the Moon" by Kelly Barnhill, "The Name of the Wind" by Patrick Rothfuss, "The Lord of the Rings" by J.R.R. Tolkien, "A Wizard of Earthsea" by Ursula K. Le Guin, "The Dark is Rising" by Susan Cooper')
('Toy Story', '96', 'November 22, 1995', 'Led by Woody, Andy's toys live happily in his room until Andy's birthday brings Buzz Lightyear onto the scene. Afraid of losing his place in Andy's heart, Woody plots against Buzz. But when circumstances separate Buzz and Woody from their owner, the duo eventually learns to put aside their differences.', '"Toy Story" is a classic animated film that has a whimsical, lighthearted atmosphere. The film follows the adventures of a group of toys who come to life when humans are not around. The film is full of humor, excitement, and heartwarming moments, making it a perfect family film. The inspiration for the film was to create the first fully computer-animated film and tell a story that would entertain both children and adults.','Animation, Family, Adventure, Comedy, Fantasy, Friendship, Childhood, Imagination', '"The Lego Movie Video Game", "Skylanders: Spyro's Adventure", "Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury", "Minecraft", "Crash Bandicoot 4: It's About Time"', '"The Giving Tree" by Shel Silverstein, "Where the Wild Things Are" by Maurice Sendak, "Goodnight Moon" by Margaret Wise Brown, "The Cat in the Hat" by Dr. Seuss, "The Little Prince" by Antoine de Saint-Exupéry')
('Ran', '96', 'December 20, 1985', 'An adaptation of William Shakespeare’s King Lear, Ran considers the disastrous consequences of Lord Hidetora Ichimonji’s (Tatsuya Nakadai) decision to split his kingdom among his three sons.', 'Ran is a 1985 Japanese film directed by Akira Kurosawa, who was inspired by Shakespeare's King Lear. The film is a visual spectacle and has a rich, epic atmosphere, capturing the grandeur and tragedy of war and political power struggles. The film is set in medieval Japan and depicts a powerful warlord who decides to divide his kingdom among his three sons. The atmosphere is one of grandeur, tragedy, and spectacle, with sweeping landscapes, stunning visuals, and intense battles.','King Lear adaptation, War, Political power struggles, Medieval Japan, Tragedy, Epic, Spectacle', 'nan', '')
('Summer of Soul (...Or, When the Revolution Could Not Be Televised)', '96', 'July 2, 2021', 'In 1969, during the same summer as Woodstock, a different music festival took place 100 miles away. More than 300,000 people attended the summer concert series known as the Harlem Cultural Festival. It was filmed, but after that summer, the footage sat in a basement for 50 years. It has never been seen. Until now.', 'Summer of Soul (...Or, When the Revolution Could Not Be Televised) is a 2021 documentary film directed by Questlove. The film focuses on the 1969 Harlem Cultural Festival, which took place over the course of six weeks in New York City. The film has an atmosphere that is celebratory, soulful, and nostalgic, capturing the energy, music, and cultural significance of the festival. It is a tribute to the power of Black cultural expression and the impact it had on the Civil Rights movement and American culture. The atmosphere is a mix of joy, pride, and reflection, as the film explores the impact of the festival on its participants and the broader cultural landscape.','Civil Rights Movement, Harlem Cultural Festival, Black Cultural Expression, Soul, Nostalgia, Music, Joy, Pride, Reflection', 'None', '')
('The Shop Around the Corner', '96', 'January 12, 1940', 'Two employees at a gift shop can barely stand each other, without realizing that they are falling in love through the post as each other's anonymous pen pal.', 'The Shop Around the Corner is a romantic comedy film directed by Ernst Lubitsch and released in 1940. The film has a charming and lighthearted atmosphere, with a focus on the romantic relationships between the characters and their struggles to find happiness. The film is known for its witty dialogue and charming performances, and its depiction of love and relationships in a way that is both timeless and relatable.','Romance, Comedy, Love, Relationships, Witty Dialogue, Timeless', 'None', '"Bridget Jones's Diary" by Helen Fielding, "Notting Hill" by Richard Curtis, "Love in the Time of Cholera" by Gabriel Garcia Marquez')
('12 Angry Men', '96', 'April 1, 1957', '12 Angry Men, by Sidney Lumet, is a behind-closed-doors look at the American legal system. This iconic adaptation of Reginald Rose’s teleplay stars Henry Fonda as the dissenting member on a jury of white men ready to pass judgment on a Puerto Rican teenager charged with murdering his father. The result is a saga of epic proportions that plays out over a tense afternoon in one sweltering room.', '"12 Angry Men" is a courtroom drama film directed by Sidney Lumet and released in 1957. The film is set entirely in a single room, where a jury of 12 men must decide the verdict of a murder trial. The atmosphere of the film is tense and thought-provoking, as the jurors' differing perspectives and biases are revealed and they are forced to confront their own prejudices and preconceptions. The film is a study of the justice system, as well as a commentary on human nature and the decision-making process.','Drama, Courtroom, Tension, Prejudice, Justice System, Human Nature, Decision Making', '"Her Story", "L.A. Noire", "Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney"', '"To Kill a Mockingbird" by Harper Lee, "The Witness for the Prosecution" by Agatha Christie, "The Trial" by Franz Kafka')
('Rosemary's Baby', '96', 'June 12, 1968', 'A young couple move into an apartment, only to be surrounded by peculiar neighbors and occurrences. When the wife becomes mysteriously pregnant, paranoia over the safety of her unborn child begins to control her life.', '"Rosemary's Baby" is a psychological horror film directed by Roman Polanski and released in 1968. The film follows a young woman named Rosemary who becomes pregnant and begins to suspect that her husband and their strange neighbors are involved in a sinister plot to harm her baby. The atmosphere of the film is eerie and suspenseful, with a creeping sense of dread that builds throughout the film as the protagonist's worst fears are realized. The film is known for its suspenseful direction, haunting score, and thought-provoking exploration of the devil and the occult.','Horror, Psychological, Suspense, Eerie, Devil, Occult', '"Outlast", "Amnesia: The Dark Descent", "Until Dawn"', '"The Exorcist" by William Peter Blatty, "The Omen" by David Seltzer, "The Witchfinder's Sister" by Beth Underdown')
('12 Years a Slave', '96', 'October 18, 2013', 'In the pre-Civil War United States, Solomon Northup, a free black man living in upstate New York, is abducted and sold into slavery.', '"12 Years a Slave" is a historical drama film directed by Steve McQueen and released in 2013. The film is based on the true story of a free black man named Solomon Northup who was kidnapped and sold into slavery in the antebellum South. The atmosphere of the film is powerful and intense, as it depicts the brutal realities of slavery and the unspeakable atrocities committed against its victims. The film is a poignant and gut-wrenching portrayal of one man's journey to reclaim his freedom and the deep injustices of the institutionalized slavery system.','Drama, Historical, Slavery, Brutality, Injustice, Freedom, Racism', 'None', '"Uncle Tom's Cabin" by Harriet Beecher Stowe, "Narrative of the Life of Frederick Douglass" by Frederick Douglass, "The Interesting Narrative of the Life of Olaudah Equiano" by Olaudah Equiano')
('Manchester by the Sea', '96', 'November 18, 2016', 'After the death of his older brother Joe (Kyle Chandler), Lee Chandler (Casey Affleck) is shocked to learn that Joe has made him sole guardian of his nephew Patrick (Lucas Hedges). Taking leave of his job, Lee reluctantly returns to Manchester-by-the-Sea to care for Patrick, a spirited 15-year-old, and is forced to deal with a past that separated him from his wife Randi (Michelle Williams) and the community where he was born and raised.   Bonded by the man who held their family together, Lee and Patrick struggle to adjust to a world without him.', '"Manchester by the Sea" is a drama film directed by Kenneth Lonergan and released in 2016. The film follows the story of Lee Chandler, a janitor living in Boston who is suddenly made the guardian of his teenage nephew after the death of his older brother. The atmosphere of the film is emotional and introspective, as Lee must come to terms with his past traumas and the tragedy that has shaped his life. The film is a poignant and affecting portrayal of loss, grief, and the resilience of the human spirit.','Drama, Emotional, Introspective, Loss, Grief, Resilience', 'None', '"The Lovely Bones" by Alice Sebold, "A Monster Calls" by Patrick Ness, "The Fault in Our Stars" by John Green')
('Killer of Sheep', '96', 'March 30, 2007', 'Killer of Sheep examines the black Los Angeles ghetto of Watts in the mid-1970s through the eyes of Stan, a sensitive dreamer who is growing detached and numb from the psychic toll of working at a slaughterhouse. The film offers no solutions; it merely presents life -- sometimes hauntingly bleak, sometimes filled with transcendent joy and gentle humor.', '"Killer of Sheep" is an independent film directed by Charles Burnett and released in 1977. The film is set in the Watts neighborhood of Los Angeles and follows the story of Stan, a sensitive and worn-out slaughterhouse worker who is struggling to find meaning and happiness in his life. The atmosphere of the film is introspective and melancholic, as it portrays the difficulties of working-class life and the daily struggles of those who are caught in the grind of poverty and social injustice. The film is a powerful and honest look at the lives of those who are often forgotten by society.','Independent, Introspective, Melancholic, Working-class, Poverty, Social injustice', 'None', '"The Grapes of Wrath" by John Steinbeck, "How the Other Half Lives" by Jacob Riis, "The Souls of Black Folk" by W.E.B. Du Bois')
